## Skilled in Microsoft Office? So is everyone else!

> Being adept with word processing applications, spreadsheets, and presentation software—things that used to set one apart on a resume and in the workplace—has become a minimum expectation for most employers. A recruiter told me that, today, having “proficiency in Microsoft Office” on a resume isn’t enough: a basic level of knowledge here is assumed and it’s what you can do above and beyond that will set you apart from others. Being able to effectively tell stories with data is one area that will give you that edge and position you for success in nearly any role.

While technology has increased access to and proficiency in tools to work with data, there remain gaps in capabilities. You can put some data in Excel and create a graph. For many, the process of data visualization ends there. This can render the most interesting story completely underwhelming, or worse—difficult or impossible to understand. Tool defaults and general practices tend to leave our data and the stories we want to tell with that data sorely lacking.

There is a story in your data. But your tools don’t know what that story is. That’s where it takes you—the analyst or communicator of the information—to bring that story visually and contextually to life. 
That process is the focus of this book. The following are a few example before‐and‐afters to give you a visual sense of what you’ll learn; 
we’ll cover each of these in detail at various points in the book.

The lessons we will cover will enable you to shift from simply show-ing data to **storytelling with data.**
